The tape is rolling, so it's all on record now.
And I obviously have your biography, but I'll have to ask some things to the fans.
Okay, tell us a little bit how you grew up and what might have influenced you to write
science fiction.
Well, I grew up in a suburb of Cleveland called Fairview Park, and I think I was influenced
to write science fiction by the fact that when I was a kid, I'd go into the public library
once or twice a week, and they had a very small children section.
And it wasn't long before I devoured all the hearty boys and the Tom Swift.
And I went to the librarian and said, hey look, let me into the older section, okay,
because there's nothing left here for me to read.
And she took me over to this row of books that had rockets on their spines and said,
if you read any of these, I said, no, what is it?
She said it's called science fiction, why don't you give it a try.
And that pretty much started a lifelong love affair with science fiction right there.
In six months, it cleaned out that library, but by then I was in this paper carrier and
was making enough money every week to go out and buy four or five paperbacks, those were
the days.
And it just never stopped.
I got into college, still reading five, ten science fiction paperbacks a week, and realized
my tastes, I think, matured a little and I started saying, my God, I could write better
than this.
I said that so often that one of my roommates said, can I put up or shut up?
And I started writing in junior, senior year of college.
Discovered it was a lot harder than I had thought.
But by, I think it was 1973, I'd made my first short story sale to analog and followed it
up a couple of years later with another and decided, well, you know, this sort of be working
for a living.
Okay, you lived in the Orient, different places in the Orient for some time and your major
was Chinese studies.
How did you get interested in Chinese studies and in the Orient and has that influenced your
science fiction in any way?
Well, to start with, I wound up in the Orient because my father joined the Peace Corps in
1966 and trucked the entire family off to Seoul, Korea for, well, I was there for two
years, the rest of the family was there for four.
This is my junior and senior year in high school.
Went to a small missionary school in Seoul, Korea, Seoul Foreign School.
Because it was Peace Corps, we were sort of under orders to avoid the American community.
We all got extensive language training.
We lived in the Korean community.
After two years of daily language lessons and all, I'd become reasonably fluent in Korean.
And when I graduated high school, I had this dream that I would become the world's foremost
American authority on Korea.
So when I applied to colleges, I applied to universities that had good, solid Korean studies
programs.
Yale was one of them.
They accepted me and I accepted them joyfully.
Came back from Seoul to New Haven, Connecticut and discovered that over the summer they'd
killed their entire Korean studies program, which sort of left me out on a limb.
I cast around from the nearest related subject and that was Chinese studies.
I figured I could, since most of Korean history is actually written in Chinese rather than
in Korean, I figured, well, okay, I'll learn Chinese now.
And spent four years discovering that I was not cut out to be an academic.
Did this experience in the Orient and in studying other cultures, does that have any
influence as far as you're writing something like alien cultures or what it's like to be
among aliens?
So it's very much.
It's hit me on a couple of different levels.
One is this is more true, I think, of Americans who live in Asia than those who live in Europe
or South America because in Asia, you're very conscious of the fact that you're a foreigner.
I mean, you're racially different.
You do not have black hair and dark brown eyes.
Everywhere you walk, people look at you, especially in some of the more rural areas of the country
like Korea, where the last time they saw an American was during the war, 20 years ago,
20 years before I was there.
They are unabashed in their curiosity and it really enchangers the self-consciousness
in the American to constantly be stared at, to have people touching to see if you feel
the same as a Korean does.
So I think that's a fact in my science fiction writing and how a person feels when he's among
aliens.
At the same time, Asian languages and cultures are, you know, they're significantly different
from Western cultures in terms of the way they view almost everything.
And although it's not really an alien psychology, it's sufficiently different.
It gives me sort of an insight into how, you know, attention being from, you know, Rigel
or whatever could view things differently, could take a really far off perspective on
something we just take for granted.
When you first started writing science fiction and then other fiction, you wrote short stories.
How long did you write short stories before you then moved to the novel form and how did
you make that transition?
Oh, it seems like forever.
Oh, I think I wrote short heavily for, oh, a good day.
I started really writing in earnest, seriously in the summer of 72 after I graduated from
college.
And that was, I was back out in Asia at that time.
I was teaching, I had a lot of free time.
And I turned out a lot of stories in 72, 73, came back to the States in 74.
You know, I'd made a couple sales.
I thought I could do better, kept at it.
And I guess between 72 and 76, I probably wrote close to 100 short stories.
And I was, by 75, 76, I was selling in a respectable clip.
I began to realize that on one hand, I mean, from a purely mercenary point of view, you
know, at least not science fiction short stories.
There are markets out there that want short stories, that need a lot of them, but they
don't pay enough.
And so I started, for financial reasons, looking at the novel probably as early as, oh, late
74 or early 75.
But I was scared.
For a long time, it terrified me to think of tackling a novel.
I mean, a novel is big.
You know, a short story, you go 5,000 words and you say, end.
And that's it.
20 pages all nice and neat.
You can retype 20 pages in the master.
I know.
You can write the whole thing in a week if you really push yourself.
But a novel, I mean, that's Mount Everest.
So I put off writing the novel until, I think, 75, 76 before I even started admitting, hey,
it's time to get going on this.
And even then I dawdled some more.
Finally, people were sensing my reluctance to tackle this and a lot of my friends started
giving me trouble.
Hey, you know, come on, it's time.
You should do it.
So I did, wrote Bandersnatch, sold it to Banson Books and been writing novels for the sense.
Bandersnatch was written in first person, which is usually kind of a hard way to write.
How did you decide to do it that way?
Well, first person is a real hard way to write well.
But it's a very easy way in which to write.
Bandersnatch might possibly have been a better book, had it been written in third person.
But first person just seemed so natural.
I'd written a lot of the stories I'd written had been in first person.
And I just felt that I could have a better control of my material if I tried it in first person.
I don't think it was completely successful.
One of your talents which really shows through in Bandersnatch is the use of slang and invented language.
Do you work hard on this or does this come naturally?
Bandersnatch, well, no, it does not come naturally.
Some words, some terms come very easily.
When you're working on a 300 page manuscript and you've read it 82 times,
certain words just sort of rise up out of the text at you.
But Bandersnatch was a very deliberate attempt to put the slang in there.
I went to, I think it was at the second or third draft and I realized it lacked sufficient feel of the future.
It just fell much to 1970-ish.
And one of the reasons was the way the people were talking to each other.
So I said, okay, look, let's invent a future slang.
It's not an original concept.
Lots of people have done it.
Lots of people have done it a lot better.
But I sat down and I had this social subgroup.
I figured, okay, what kind of slang which are these people going to develop?
What are they going to have slang words for?
We're talking outlaws here.
Well, they're going to have words for police and each other and criminal acts.
And I tried to almost extrapolate some of the words from the way they are today.
Other words I tried to take off of their origin.
Others sort of accronymiased.
Fedra 3, the locale where much of the book takes place, came from the federal dependence resettlement area,
which FDRA and pretty soon it's Fedra.
Leapers, one of the slang terms for police came from the law enforcement agency personnel and things like that.
This book seemed almost angry, Bander Snatch and then the other people.
Was this anything heavily psychological about this or is this the way it came out?
Well, I think it came out that way for two reasons.
First, the pace at which I wrote it.
It took a long time to write, but I wrote almost entirely on weekends.
And I try to knock off 10 pages a day every weekend.
When you write at that speed, I think emotions just come more naturally to the surface.
Also, the characters in there are for the most part very angry characters.
There's societies outcasts exiled to this artificial peninsula up there in Lake Erie off of Ash-Tabula.
I think at the time I felt that these people would be just naturally bitter, angry, resentful types.
They're losers and losers either tend to be totally innocuous or angry.
One of the characters, Baby Bear, was a real cuddly animal sidekick, which you seem to have in other books as well.
Do you particularly like animals and is there anything that particularly inspired him?
I inspired Baby Bear.
Baby Bear actually came about almost entirely by accident.
I had had, you know, a bandersnatch wandering through this alien jungle.
And I realized he needed like a...the way the story was going, he had to have this climactic battle sequence with a natural force, some sort of wild animal.
And I hadn't had any wild animals in there really big enough for him.
But all of a sudden off the page came this monstrous bear-like animal that almost loomed up before him and started attacking him.
And, you know, he won.
And there I was with a dead bear on the ground.
And just sort of somehow my fingers kept going and there was a sound from the distance and it was the cub.
And the next thing I knew he had a sidekick as you put it.
That was just accidental really.
I think it worked.
And I think from a reader's interest point of view, I think it helps when the protagonist has a sidekick of some sort.
When you're writing science fiction, well, you know, why not give the hero an alien sidekick, Sam and the McGill fiend series?
I think it lets you do a little exploring into alien psychology.
And at the same time, it lets you keep making sort of mirror-like observations of human culture.
So I find it fun and useful and seems to work.
My flies then appeared and I noticed that it's coming out in a second edition with a different cover and everything.
That must be gratifying.
Oh, it is.
This, there are of course a lot of generation-ship ideas in science fiction.
But this was the first one I'd read that was from the computer's point of view.
I'm sure I can't hear you.
Okay. My engineer cautioned me. I should talk less loudly so I'll tell him to screw it.
Okay.
This, Mayfly's was basic. Well, I've read a lot of life-ship or generation-ship science fiction stories and books.
Of course, there's a lot of them.
But this was the first one I'd read from the computer's point of view.
Yeah.
Was that the intent to do that from the computer's point of view or a man who, well, it gives him a bloody brain, basically?
Mayfly started out as, actually, it was a workshop exercise.
I was at the time in a workshop here in New Haven.
And we had to do, oh, I forget, a two-paragraph description of someone.
And I described this character, Metaclura, who took more than the two paragraphs to describe.
He ran on for about a page and all of a sudden he died.
And I took it into the workshop and people said, well, yes, those are nice paragraphs and very good description.
But boy, what have you done here? You know, you've created a character and then killed him. What a waste.
I got angry and said, well, you know, maybe I've killed him, but it's not a waste.
But I can make something of him.
And they said, we dare you.
And pretty soon, Mayfly's was underway with me trying to prove he could write a book about a protagonist who died on page one.
And have that protagonist a very vital part of the entire story, rather than just a haunting memory.
The only way to do that was, of course, to somehow keep him alive and then one thing led to another.
And the next thing I knew, Metaclura was a central computer on the good shit in Mayfly.
Do those kinds of workshops help on right science fiction, either to get started or to discuss pros and cons of stories?
I think they can be very useful.
It's really hard to find someone who can read and criticize science fiction effectively.
The concepts of science fiction are so different from the concepts of the mystery genre or the romance genre, whatever.
And also, you know, if any writer can tell you good friends who aren't writers and close relatives and like that,
when they read your stuff, there's an implicit bias in the way they read it.
They like you.
You're their friend, their spouse, their first cousin once removed, whatever.
But they like you and it influences the way they read your work.
It influences the way they comment on your work to you.
And you don't get honest feedback.
You get rose-colored feedback, which is really flattering to the ego,
but it doesn't help you sell.
When you go into a workshop, there are people who maybe they know you, maybe they don't, maybe they like you, maybe they don't.
But they know writing.
They know science fiction in this particular instance.
And they can say, OK, look, you know, you made a nice start at this story, but it doesn't work because of this, that and the other.
And these are things that probably your friends and relatives wouldn't see to begin with.
And if they did, they downplay it.
Well, you know, this is a little weak here, but don't worry about it.
It's a great story.
We love you.
You can't, you can't really become a selling writer with that sort of critical feedback.
It doesn't help.
And that, I think, is where workshops can be very useful.
They can also be destructive when all the egos are on parade and people start sloshing each other up just for the sure joy of cutting.
And watching somebody else ride.
In that case, the workshop is destructive and not worth it.
OK, I'm glad I asked that.
Back to Mayflies.
Was Mayflies your title?
My original title for Mayflies was Mayflies and Others Spaced Spirits.
Which, if you look it up in books and print, is still the official title.
But the sales department at Berkeley thought that this was a little, sounded too much like an anthology, they said.
And anthologies weren't selling.
There was a market for novels, but simply not for collections of short stories.
And they said, look, let's cut the rest of the title.
Cut it back to one word.
Short, punchy, no confusion over what the book is.
And as if you better know, the writer really doesn't have much choice when the sales department says change the title.
So I went along with it and made my choice.
I haven't yet had a title accepted by a sales department.
I've written six, published six books and the sales department has changed the title on every one of them.
Okay, that brings up, well not the next book, but the next one to talk about.
Because I want to do the other three together.
But War of Omission, what was its original title?
The original title of War of Omission was Lathian Limit.
Which is now the title of one of the subsections.
And my thought that was really artsy and evocative and nice in the sales department said, yeah.
In decisions like this, the sales department always has the final say.
I remember reading in Locust that there was a forthcoming book by that title and I'd wondered what happened to it.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's where it went.
Okay, this book, again, this isn't first person, but it's multiple viewpoints.
Which I understand is just about as hard to write.
Viewpoints of several different people.
Yeah.
I was trying something and what I tried to do in there was inspired by one of those Masterpiece Theater PBS shows.
At this point I'm embarrassed to say I can't remember the play or the characters or the actors or anything.
But it was, the first episode was told entirely from one person's point of view and the second from the point of view of someone else who was also a minor character in that first episode.
And so it went through the series.
And it was a piece, you know, to be fun to try this.
So I very deliberately picked out, I think, eight major characters in there, gave each of them one section of the book to be the protagonist in that section.
And had them up here elsewhere as minor characters until the end is supposed to rotate back and forth through all eight different heads.
I was trying to view this cataclysm from as many different viewpoints as I could while still maintaining storyline continuity.
Did it work?
Yeah, I thought it was great. It was very interesting. I like that particular approach myself and I just don't see it very often.
Okay, as in Bandersnatch, the society that you portray is pretty much strangled by a burgeoning and bureaucracy. Is this a personal view? Do you fear that?
Yes, it is. I really see it happening not only here but pretty much everywhere where governments have been in power for any length of time.
I think it's the nature of the beast, a bureaucracy of any sort, whether it's governmental, corporate, academic.
It achieves a goal beyond its stated purpose or it acquires a new goal.
Well, in that debt goal is to survive, to perpetuate itself, to expand, to get fat and strong and secure.
It goes all the way back to Parkinson's Law and work expands until the time available and when it has you hire two assistants.
I think this is an inevitable trend in any bureaucracy, whether it's Western style capitalism or Maoist communism.
One of Mao's big campaigns was against bureaucracy. He was constantly railing against the way that no matter what he said, no matter what he did,
the bureaucracy kept growing and it kept issuing new regulations and new rules.
Here he was, the most powerful man in China and he couldn't affect the bureaucracy.
So, yeah, that's a very personal sort of point.
If Bander Snatch was a 70s novel, certainly World War Mission was a 60s novel.
I'm just about exactly two years older than you are, so I went through those times and remember them well, some of them quite fondly.
You handled the part at first when it was the revolutionary part pretty well.
I thought it could have gotten, I've read books in fact where it gets pretty slanted one way or the other and I thought you presented it pretty fairly.
That must have been pretty hard to do to present both sides and try to think of them all, I guess in retrospect, maybe it's a little easier than when we were living in that time.
Yeah, retrospect helps a lot there.
What point were you trying to make with this book, if any?
Well,
Well, it's a hard one.
Modern day recapitulation of the statement that power corrupts, an absolute power corrupts, absolutely.
I was trying to say, hey, it's real easy to say that the system stinks and we'll wipe it out, but what happens when you do wipe it out?
I think this is where every revolutionary since the French in 1787 is screwed up thoroughly.
They say, well, you know, the present system is corrupt and it's bloated and it stinks and let's throw it out and we'll have paradise.
I think that's stupid. I'm not a defender of the system, but I think this sort of sweeping, burn it down just doesn't work because, you know, you wind up building on rubble.
You don't move into a structure that you can clean up and straighten out. You've got bashes.
And I think really there's two things where what the book is all about.
The science fictional aspect of that book was the Tissere. Did the Tissere idea come first and then the story follow?
The whole book came from the section titled, The Inmoment, that itself came from a friend of mine and I in this workshop I was in, we're talking about collaborating on a story.
And, you know, we batted around the two ideas and I did up a draft of the story and he said, no, I don't like that at all. I don't want to have anything to do with it.
I said, well, okay, do you mind if I do? He said, no, go right ahead.
I wrote the story, Lissy and LeMence gave it to my agents who read it and said, well, you know, it's going to be difficult yourself.
It's pretty weird and there's not a lot of background in there.
Why don't you try and turn it into a book? You know, because there's clearly more to the story than just this one little sequence.
I thought about it.
Did the proposal for Banson Books that consisted of an outline and that one story, the then editor, Sidney Weinberg, read the proposal six weeks later, said, yeah, I want it, I'll buy it, and we did the deal.
The hook that the Tissier provided was the loss of memory. And I would think when you were writing the book, that would be the hardest thing to keep consistent, that the people forget what happened and write themselves notes, but that doesn't work, that sort of thing.
That's what really hooked me about it.
The hardest part was trying to make it plausible.
And a reviewer, too, has appeared that, you know, has really faulted the book on those grounds, for whatever reason, that person just did not believe the Tissier.
And I put so much effort into trying to make it believable. I think I put more effort into that than any other part of the book, trying to make it seem very natural, and trying to provide possible explanations for why this happened.
Sort of brief meditations on the nature of reality.
For those who accepted the explanation, who believed the Tissier, I think the book worked. And I think if you can't believe it, the book just falls flat.
Yeah, I thought it was believable, and that's what made it work. Yeah, it was sometimes obvious what was going to happen. This guy was going to get wiped out, and they were going to forget about him.
And in some of the cases, you couldn't wait for that to happen.
It must have been fun to sort of sit there and dream about destroying New Haven, this town that you've lived in for many years, piece of the time.
I was here to like, I was sort of offended by my publisher that they cut some references in there. We have a building here in town, and maybe when you edit this, you might want to cut it out too.
It's the Knights of Columbus building, and I think it's possibly the ugliest structure ever erected anywhere in America. It's a huge, towering, ugly brick building with massive turrets at each of the four corners of the building.
I mean, it looks like it was designed to hold off an attack by maddened archers. And I took great pleasure in destroying that in the book, having it totally obliterated from the face of the earth.
And at one point, I had a character bring it back and change his mind. It was so ugly. But the editor took that, cut it right out. Nope, sorry, can't do that. But it was fun taking out the rest in New Haven.
Maybe when you get to Robert Fine Line's statue, you can republish it and put that back in.
I would love to. I would really love to. Of course, the Knights of Columbus won't be too happy, but what can you do?
Okay, now I move on to the journeys of McGill Fian. These books I interpret as being humorous. Is that your primary intent?
Well, my primary intent in the McGill Fian series is to do something light, fast-paced, adventuresome, that nonetheless shows a person of incredible talent growing up and the problems he faces.
It's that aspect of attempts to take lower priority and the adventures of McGill Fian come first.
I do want a book that people can sit down and read quickly and really enjoy.
Not a gloomy book, as Bandersnatch and War of Omission are sort of downbeat books.
Mayfly's is in a way upbeat, but it's got a lot of depressing stuff in it. Whereas McGill Fian is not.
I do it partly to change your pace, to write a book that just moves right along and starts to finish.
There's a lot of things happening. He has a very clear-cut hero who is nonetheless human, has his problems, and nonetheless bulges ahead.
I'm trying to do a lot of things in the Fian series, and I don't know if I've done them until I finish the series.
Okay, once again, in these books there's a bureaucracy that the Flingers have to face. So this must be your thing about bureaucracy, surfacing again.
That's definitely my best law. That's it right there.
Okay, I guess that's a better term than a thing.
These books of the six you've written are the only ones that have aliens because of the type of science fiction that the others are.
Do you introduce aliens to point out various human foyables? Are these just exaggerated humans or what?
No, actually they're not. I'm really trying in the Fian series to create plausible aliens who aren't so alien that you can't understand them,
and aren't so alien that they don't have any reference points with human kinds.
Are you a sufficiently alien that you can't really grasp how to open them?
You know, I think a Michael Bishop has done some marvelous aliens, but they're totally incomprehensible.
I mean they're so alien that they just make no sense whatsoever.
In the Fian series I'm trying to make aliens who are comprehensible, and yet who are not human.
I really think when we run into alien species, and sooner or later we will, they will have traits which we recognize as traits that we have.
In Lava I've got these religious fanatics running around.
I suspect that any sentient race we encounter will, at least in one stage of their development, have gone through an intensely religious period.
I think it might still be religious today if we can tell, but I think any sentient being has to wonder on its origin how it came to be, why it came to be, who created the universe.
So, you know, I'm trying to, not to mirror humanity, but to suggest that there are alternates with which we can have traits, attitudes, and common.
Sam is another alien sidekick, and I guess the thing there is we get to see him grow up and mature and how he reacts in an alien environment.
Yeah, Sam is, of course Sam, I mean he's going to grow up so mixed up, because he's being raised entirely on Earth, well except for their excursions off-world, but he's being raised by a human being with very human values.
But Sam is not human.
And when he gets to his kids to maturity, he's going to be, oh heavens, from the tip of his nose to the tip of his tail, he's going to be about 15 feet long.
And he can stand about, oh, what, four and a half feet high at the shoulder?
Now, it's the back part of him, and his head will be, you know, pretty much about six feet off the ground.
I mean, he's going to be big, he's going to be very alien looking, and he's going to have a lot of trouble because he's neither one nor the other.
He's not a wrong-doer. He knows nothing of wrong-doer culture.
But he's not, he is not and can never be a human being.
I see lots of interesting problems ahead for Sam.
Is he going to fling McGill into the sun one of these days?
Oh, that would be telling.
I know, I didn't really expect an answer on that. I sure hope not. As a fan, I hope we see some more of them.
Which brings me to the next question, are we going to see some more of McGill and Sam?
Yes, definitely.
At the moment there's a McGill story, and it's from his childhood just been published in Berkeley Showcase.
There will be more being books.
At the moment, I'm saying seven more than the series will end.
So, it'll go out to at least ten.
This may be something you don't want to put on the air, so it doesn't matter.
But I'm curious what you think of the book covers so far for that series.
How realistic they are, if that's how you envision the people, or maybe just book covers in general, for what's been your lot so far.
Well, the theme ones I like, I mean, I hadn't visualized McGill-Pien as looking quite like the way the covers happen.
But, there's something there, the energy tunic, it's not quite what I envisioned, but it's good nonetheless.
I like a lot of what she's done with those covers.
I think they've helped sales really, you know, in paperback marketing, that's what a cover is.
It's our marketing device.
Banders match I was very angry with the cover, because nothing in there relates to the story.
I love Mayflies. I thought Mayflies was a great cover.
And since the fake did it, he read the entire manuscript, there are gizmos on the cover, there's one on the back cover of an alien spaceship.
It is mentioned in one paragraph, buried out there around page 270, but the fake picked it up and put it on the cover.
And I thought it really worked.
Janet Alicia, who has done all the fiends and is also doing the new cover for the second edition of Mayflies,
captures the story in a different way. I mean, she's not 100% technically accurate.
In fact, I'm not going to embarrass her on the end.
We can cut this. It doesn't matter.
Okay, good. Cut this.
Okay, understood.
What's coming up, Janet, she did caverns, which I thought was great.
And then she did reefs, and it has a picture of Sam as an infant on the cover.
And I saw this in proof. It was much too late to do anything about it.
But I wrote Janet, and I wrote Victoria Shockett, who was then out of there at Brooklyn.
I said, hey, what's going on here?
Rangans have four legs and two arms.
And here's this cover where he only has two legs and two arms.
What happened to the other two legs?
And Janet had missed it completely.
But now by that time, she'd already finished the cover for lava.
And she looked at it, and there's Sam with two legs and two arms.
So she painted in a rock in front of him to hide the missing two legs.
She promises to number four. Sam will have four legs.
I hope he is pictured on the succeeding covers, because if he grows to be that large, we'll get to see him grow.
Assuming he survives the books and all.
Which brings me to the next question.
Some of the people that McGill hangs around with don't survive.
And Nadia and Greystein come to mind.
I mean, these are his friends, and they really take it in the ear in these books.
Part of that is cold calculation on my part.
That when you're writing a series, one of the real difficulties is convincing the reader that your hero is in danger.
When you write one book, there's no problem.
Because the reader doesn't know how it's going to come out.
But when you have a series, the reader says, well, hey, look, you know, he's been through 18 of these adventures.
Now he's emerged unscathed from everyone.
So why worry?
And you know, the reader's emotional involvement in the story is lessened.
But when there is a real danger, when people near and dear to him are dying, and in some cases dying horribly,
it brings the threat much closer, makes it much more plausible.
And at this point McGill has lost a lot of people who are very close to him.
His parents, Nadia and Grace Dean, he's going to lose more.
You know, as I say, part of it is cold calculation, but part of it is also realistic appraisal of the situation being him.
He's got this talent, he's got this mysterious link with this even more mysterious alien being,
and he has people hot on his trail.
And it streams, you know, reader's credibility to have not only Dean, but all his friends coming to you safe and sound every time.
You know, the organization, they may not be perfect, but they're not total amateurs,
and they're going to be striking real close to home.
And they have so far in the first three books and they'll continue to.
Makes a lot of sense.
The other thing I really enjoyed is McGill's Misadventures with Gina McCarrie.
Does that come from personal experience? I mean, it's really frustrating to read this poor guy going through all this.
Of course, it brings back memories too.
Yeah, I think anybody who's ever been a teenage boy can identify with a lot of McGill and Gina.
Yeah, much of it comes from personal experience.
The feelings of awkwardness and the way things just never click with someone you want them to.
Okay, so you say you have about seven more books in mind.
Are you working on other things simultaneously?
Is this going to be your output for the next few years?
No, I'm going to keep on doing what I've been doing, which is write a fan book and then a non-fan, back and forth.
Seriously, some people seem to be able to just sit down and write book after book of their series character.
I can't do that after I wrote Lava right after finishing, I think it was the fourth draft of Reef.
And by the end of Lava, I was ready to kill McGilfian.
If I had to write a fourth McGilfian right then, it would have been flung into the summer on page one and I would have been it, you know, the end.
So I plan to alternate Fian books with things more in line with the Anderson and Schnazschmake lines for a commission.
I'm working on one of them right now in fact, which is driving me absolutely crazy and making me look forward to seeing all the more.
Okay, that about does it. I was going to make a couple of comments.
One is that the Fian books remind me now, take this as a compliment because I'm a farmer fan, but remind me a little bit of Venus on the half shell, kind of the humor and the slug at the front that's the God and that sort of thing.
It reminded me just of the tone of that, not the story, but anyway, it was reminiscent of that, which I really enjoyed it a long time ago.
I will take that.
The other thing I want to ask you just well, the interview is over.
Okay.
The other thing I want to ask you and I will tell you this at the end that didn't want to tell you at the front.
Okay, whenever you're whenever better snatch first came out and I saw the name and said Kevin O'Donnell Jr.
And I really avoided it.
I mean, those books weren't terrible, but it wasn't it wasn't worth picking up.
And I wondered if anybody else had ever mentioned to you that they thought you were Barry Maltzberg at first.
The entire world has mentioned to me that they thought I was Barry Maltzberg.
I'm sort of a difficult name to shake.
Barry first used that pseudonym because he was working as a literary agent and couldn't have his output appear under his own name at the time.
And he picked it as sort of an homage to Cutner Moore, who wrote under the pen name Lawrence O'Donnell.
So he took their initials to their last names and used O'Donnell.
Well, I came along four years later and everybody thought I was some kind of either a rip-off artist or Barry using yet another pseudonym.
But but KMO Donnell has caused me a lot of grief.
In fact, after I left Korea and went to college, my mother, my subscription to FNSF was still going out to Korea.
And a very depressing, nasty KMO Donnell story showed up in FNSF.
My mother tore it out of the magazine and sent it to me.
I said, scribble on it, is this you?
You know, when I had to write back, no mom, that's not me, that somebody else is using my name, but really it's not me.
Since then I've had people come up and say, are you Barry Maltzberg's son?
You know, what is this?
It's been bothering me now for going on ten years.